# SeCon

## Team Members:

- Maria Nizik
- Barbara Popławska
- Lidia Stadnik
- Zuzanna Smektała

## Project Description:

The goal of this project was to develop SeCon, a batch converter for nucleic acid sequence files. SeCon converts individual files or entire batches of sequence files between FASTA, GenBank, and EMBL formats. It supports input folders containing files of mixed formats and can perform all necessary transformations within the supported group.

SeCon's architecture ensures seamless integration of new converters. The core functionality is centered around a base converter that manages I/O operations, supporting both file-based and web-based inputs. Each converter script consists of two classes, each implementing a unidirectional conversion method. Both classes include a `convert()` function. Converters are organized in a list generated by `get_converters()`, facilitating easy access via the registry. SeCon supports both single file and batch conversions, accompanied by detailed logging of operations and errors.

## Key Features:

- **Batch Processing**: Handles single files and batches with ease.
- **Multiple Format Support**: Converts between FASTA, GenBank, and EMBL formats.
- **Automatic Output Management**: Automatically generates output folders and file names, with customizable options via the `-o` flag.
- **Exclusion Patterns**: Allows exclusion of specific files from batch conversion using Unix shell-style patterns with the `-e` flag.
- **Flexible Input**: Accepts extensions with or without a dot.

## Usage:

secon.py [-h] [-o OUTPUT] [-e EXCLUDE] [-v] input format

### Positional Arguments:

- `input`: Path to the input file or folder.
- `format`: Desired output format (fasta/embl/gb).

### Options:

- `-h, --help`: Display the help message and exit.
- `-o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT`: Specify the path to the output folder.
- `-e EXCLUDE, --exclude EXCLUDE`: Pattern to exclude certain files from conversion (applicable to folders).
- `-v, --verbose`: Enable verbose mode to print all logs.

For more information, visit: [SeCon on GitHub](https://github.com/Silbena/SeCon)


